# Reflections

**Reflect on creating interfaces for your body. Consider how we engage with tools – how does this impact how your body extends into the tools around you? What possibilities do you see?**

When I try to think of tools as "prosthetics", those that pop into my mind are mostly computational communication interfaces. It seems to me that these technologies - the ones that extend the ways that we communicate and share information - dominate my understanding of the field. Everybody uses them a thousand times on a daily basis, from virtual spaces to conferencing technologies, and so on. Our bodies extend into the digital and exist simultaneously across space, time, realities. But why is it that these interfaces so often serve the purpose of communication? Most of the examples that I can think of require or are best used while sitting, and focusing on passing information through them. But what might the interfaces serving other needs be? What if we wanted to create an interface that enhances the experience of dance, for example, which is also part of the worldly experiences humans and other entities can - and should - have? One that draws inspiration from the movements and flows that we can observe in other living or inert entities. Perhaps, one that grants access to this experience to people who usually can't experience it fully. I’d like to imagine tools that do not deal with information, or at least not in a traditional sense. Rather, these interfaces would enhance other ways to relate to the world. I would definitely take more time to reflect on what these could be!

**Consider what it means to have the skills to make this device. How does it impact, collide with, and alter your relationship with consumer interfaces?**

I had heard of Imogen Heap’s Mi.Mu glove and it seemed completely exotic and futuristic to me. Now, after two weeks in this course, I see a glimpse of how this type of devices might work, and I realise that these technologies have been around for decades. Although it’s true that I had never actively researched innovations in these fields, I find it strange that I perceived this kind of technology as almost alien. I feel that, because I have only ever been exposed to consumer-grade interfaces, my range of experience has been extremely narrow. By comparison, the interfaces I am used to feel uninspired and uninspiring, maybe because I am so used to using them and they have become my norm. Now that I see how accessible it can be to make interesting, original interfaces, I wonder why they are not already being implemented in all their diversity in the products that I use. The exciting part is that soon I’ll be able - hopefully - to imagine and build new interfaces for the devices I use.